this is the train from Los Mochis to
Chihuahua which inexplicably leaves at 6
a.m. in the morning the local name for
this area in all the guidebooks
is the land of turtles beautifully
romantic name for this place on the on
the Sea of Cortez but actually we just
found out that it's probably more likely
called the land of spinach-type
vegetables' so we're going from the land
of spinach-type vegetables' to chihuahua
you landed a very small numbers
the great railway journeys of the world
almost all life depends on the energy
that the Sun sends our way but the Sun
is a far from benevolent companion
because it's radiant rain can be as
dangerous as it is nourishing
and the Sun is quite low in the sky it's
about 7:00 a.m. or so it's not been up
long and I'm going to measure the amount
of UV radiation followed on every square
centimeter with this digital ultraviolet
radiometer in a moment says this is our
22 microwatts per square centimetre
falling on my skin but as we climb even
altitude then that UVB light is gonna
have to travel through less and less of
the atmosphere so less of its going to
be absorbed
and sure enough as the miles pass by and
we head into the mountainous interior
the meter readings start to go up
nice about 10 o'clock in the morning so
there's some significantly higher in the
sky the trains also climbed quite a bit
in altitude nearly 250 microwatts per
square centimeter so that's a factor of
10 higher and that's just because the
UVB is had significantly less itself of
the Earth's atmosphere down to me that's
more than enough to burn unprotected
skin in just a few minutes and that's
because what arrived from the Sun is far
more than just the stuff we can see
beyond the visible the higher energy
part of the spectrum there's ultraviolet
lights particularly UVB which does get
through the Earth's atmosphere and gets
to the surface now UVB can be beneficial
to life we use it to produce bits of
indeed for example but because it's
higher energy can also be extremely
damaging it can damage DNA it can burn
our skin as well as give us a suntan and
of course ultimately we can give us skin
cancer
you